Welcome back.
Well let's create our own memory leak.
How can we do this well.
The easiest way to do it is to just create an array and we'll say that it's an empty array to start
off.
But within here we're going to create a loop.
Let's say I equals to five and I want you to keep looping as long as I.
Is greater than 1 and I'm 1 to say I plus plus.
That means let's increment I by 1.
Now you see here that I'm creating an infinite loop because while I is always going to be bigger than
one so all I have to do here is say array dot push and we're going to add to the array by minus one.
Now when I run this code what's going to happen is we're going to run an infinite loop that keeps pushing
to the array.
I minus one over and over and over until well we fill up our memory and there's nothing left for us
to use and while we're gonna crash the browser let's see how this happens.
Once I press enter.
All right.
Things are happening.
Oh did you see that.
Something went wrong while displaying this web page we just crashed our browser.
Go ahead and play with that if you want or tried to create your own memory leaks.
But what I did was I filled up our memory heap with more and more and more data.
The garbage collection wasn't really working because well we had this array we were using this array
over and over until we crashed our program so memory leaks are pieces of memory that the application
have used in the past but it's not needed any longer but has not yet been returned back to us to the
poor free memory.
Now this was a silly example and most likely you're not going to do in your programs but there are three
common memory leaks that happened that I want to show you so you can avoid them in your application.
The very first one and this is something that you've heard over and over and that is global variables
one of the reasons that we don't want to have too many global variables such as doing variable A equals
to one.
Well I've just added variable a as a variable on our global scope something we'll get into a little
bit later.
But if hypothetically I just keep adding variables to my environment while we're adding more and more
pieces of memory and these where objects and deeply nested objects you can see the memory being used
up more and more and more.
Another one is event listeners so if I have something like element equals document dot get element by
I.D. in our browser and let's say I select the button and with this button I'm going to add an event
listener
that's going to listen on the click event and it's going to do some function that well I'll just call
it on click.
We don't really have a here but it's going to have that.
Now this is one of the most common ways to leak memory and that is you add these event listeners and
you never remove them when you don't need them so that you keep adding keep adding keep adding event
listeners.
And because they're just there in the background you forget about them.
And next thing you know you create a memory like this happens a lot especially if you go back and forth
between single page applications where you're not removing the event listeners off the page and as a
user goes back and forth back and forth the memory keeps increasing more and more as more event listeners
are added.
Another common one is simply using something like set interval where you have the sent interval function
that does something and inside of here you start referencing objects and these objects in here are going
to will never be collected by the garbage collector because this set interval unless we clear it and
stop it is going to keep running and running and running.
So memory leaks are something that we have to be careful of So one example is SoundCloud you see SoundCloud
which some of you may know you can listen to some really interesting artists and music.
Well they had this application that worked on a gaming device but it was built with JavaScript and web
tools so that this SoundCloud application can be run in the background of this game console.
What they found out is that they had a memory leak because people put SoundCloud in the background it
just kept running for long periods of time so that this memory leak that they had kept increasing more
and more and more because people would enclose the application for while sometimes hours and hours and
hours and they noticed that they had a memory leak in their program because unlike most Web sites or
apps their app runs a really really long time in the background.
So they had to fix that memory leak I'll leave a link to this article where they explain some of this
problem.
It's really really interesting if you want to learn a little bit more about it.
Just something to be aware of that memory is limited.
That is when it comes to call stack and memory heap.
Those are two places that JavaScript remembers or stores memory.
And we have limited use of them.
So for us to write efficient code we have to be conscious to not have stack overflow or a memory leak
and to manage that memory well all right that's enough for now.
Take a break.
Drink some coffee.
Have some tea and I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.